>> Steve Kinney: We think a lot about.
With text,
we think a lot about I ask question or
do prompt ChatGPT give response, right?
And that is a very popular paradigm.
Right, but it is not the only one and it
is one that we will work with a lot today.
But I did want to introduce a few other
ones because they have practical purposes,
and when we see the code, you'll see that,
like, I could just, like, there might be
a use case for this in my application
that I could just use like tomorrow.
And it is not a heavy lift.
So I think it is the responsible and
practical choice to kind
of go through all of them.
I will say one more time that
especially for all the tech stuff,
there's also a TypeScript SDK.
And I understand that you are tuned
into frontendmasters.com and so
the likelihood that you are at
one point touch JavaScript or
TypeScript during your
day to day life is high.
All of these concepts apply there as well.
And honestly, the syntax isn't
all that much different and
the APIs are all the same from
the libraries, so on and so forth.
Even if you're like, that's cool,
but I don't have Python in my app,
it's okay, you can just do the same
basic thing in TypeScript as well.
So one of the things we can
do is sentiment analysis.
This is like the hello world of any kind,
machine learning kind of stuff,
which is you take words and
you give it a score.
Are these happy words or sad words?
And there's like nuance there, right?
In simple, like sentiment analysis,
simple, easy,
great, not good with nuance
insofar like sarcasm,
which I have employed one or
two times in my life.
It's not great with that.
And we'll see how stuff like
Transformers handle that and why
ChatGPT is better with my sass than the
basic sentiment analysis that we look at.
But it is kind of the first and
foremost easiest kind of
way to wrap our heads around to
making sure any of our setup works.
So we'll take a look at
sentiment analysis, but
then we get to kind of the popular kid
in school, which is text generation.
And I call this one out
specifically because for
a lot of us it is the one we
think about first and foremost.
But some of these other ones that
we'll look at after this one, we'll be
like that must be how ChatGPT or Gemini or
Claude or what have you deepseek work.
No, text generation is
predominantly the one.
I use some interesting
techniques in order to do that.
And some of the other tools we're
gonna see are just not dissimilar, but
approaching it from a different angle.
Right, and
I will say this again in a little bit,
I'll say this a whole bunch
of times today in fact.
So why not set expectations
where they belong?
When we think about AI in terms
of ChatGPT and Gemini and Claude,
it is a very sophisticated mathematical
model that is just guessing what
the next word probably is.
So if you've ever lied to your parents,
you, you know exactly how this works.
And so that is effectively how
most of these models work.
And it's incredibly sophisticated
in how they do that.
But like at the end of the day,
that's how it goes down.
We'll see lots of different parameters
in there, but there's a few interesting
things, like how many new tokens, like
how much new text do we want to generate.
The really interesting one
is this idea of temperature,
which we'll play with both numerous times,
which is if the idea is that an LLM.
Or what have you guesses
what the next most likely
word is it always picking
the exact next most likely
word would get you the same
output every time.
And occasionally maybe
that's what you want.
A lot of times you need a little bit of
creativity or spiciness in there as well.
And then if you ever from hugging
face you can pull down legit models,
ones that are coming in at depending on
how much room you have on your computer,
how much ram, so on and so forth.
Ones that are thousands of parameters,
up to 105 billion parameters, so
on and so forth.
And so with those open source models that
you can pull down from hugging face,
a lot of these concepts and tools that
we see when you're running a full on LLM
are like knobs that you can tweak.
So I think it's kind of fun to learn
exactly what those knobs mean,
see them in small cases and realize
that they apply to the bigger models.
The only difference with stuff like
the hosted ones, like ChatGPT, Gemini, and
Claude, is that they have the knobs and
you don't.
But those knobs exist in all
of the other models as well.
It's just that they're abstracted
away from you on the hosted services.
And then, yeah, how many, you can generate
multiple different ones, multiple
different responses and text generation
and then pick which one you want.
And so you could start to do interesting
things here as you build up the building
blocks, which is we've only talked
about two of the modalities so far.
But you could see like, hey, I want to
maybe generate five different strings
of text, and then I'm going to send them
an analysis to see which one is the least
sassy or the most positive
is a better way to put it.
So you begin to stack these
things in interesting ways, and
I would love your brain to start churning
on some of these things now as we begin to
see some of the rest.
Because any given one, cool.
Starting to mix and match them is where
I think the creative parts come and
the ability to build new and
interesting things.